README.md, before:

# SasthyaSeba - Healthcare Platform

SasthyaSeba is a modern healthcare platform designed to connect patients with healthcare professionals seamlessly. This project aims to improve healthcare accessibility and efficiency through digital solutions.

## Project Purpose

SasthyaSeba was developed to address challenges in healthcare accessibility by providing:
- Easy appointment scheduling with doctors
- Digital medical records management
- Telehealth consultation options
- Healthcare information and resources

## Features

- User authentication and profiles
- Doctor search and appointment booking
- Medical record storage and sharing
- Consultation scheduling
- Healthcare blog and information resources
- Responsive design for all devices

## Screenshots

### Home Page
![Home Page](./screenshots/home-page.png)
<!-- Add your screenshot images to a screenshots directory -->

### Doctor Search
![Doctor Search](./screenshots/doctor-search.png)

### Patient Dashboard
![Patient Dashboard](./screenshots/patient-dashboard.png)

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend**: Next.js, React, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: Next.js API Routes
- **Database**: [Your database choice]
- **Authentication**: [Your auth solution]
- **Deployment**: Vercel

## How It's Made

This application is built with Next.js using the App Router architecture. The development process involved:

1. User interface design and prototyping
2. Implementation of frontend components with React and Tailwind CSS
3. Backend API development using Next.js API routes
4. Database integration and state management
5. Testing and optimization

## How to Use

1. **Registration/Login**:
   - Create an account or log in to access all features

2. **Finding a Doctor**:
   - Browse through available doctors
   - Filter by specialty, location, or availability
   - View doctor profiles and credentials

3. **Booking Appointments**:
   - Select available time slots
   - Provide reason for visit
   - Receive confirmation

4. **Managing Health Records**:
   - Upload medical documents
   - Share records with healthcare providers
   - Track medical history

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

## Contributing

[Instructions for how others can contribute to your project]

## License

[Your license information]

Commit message:

added the doctor side fnctionality

README.md, after:

# SasthyaSeba - Healthcare Platform

SasthyaSeba is a modern healthcare platform designed to connect patients with healthcare professionals seamlessly. This project aims to improve healthcare accessibility and efficiency through digital solutions.

## Project Purpose

SasthyaSeba was developed to address challenges in healthcare accessibility by providing:
- Easy appointment scheduling with doctors
- Digital medical records management
- Telehealth consultation options
- Healthcare information and resources

## Features

- User authentication and profiles
- Doctor search and appointment booking
- Medical record storage and sharing
- Consultation scheduling
- Healthcare blog and information resources
- Responsive design for all devices
- **Doctor scheduling system and appointment management**

## Doctor Scheduling System

The doctor scheduling system allows doctors to:

1. **Update their available schedule**: Doctors can set which time slots they are available for appointments.
2. **Manage appointments**: View and manage patient appointments including confirming, completing, or canceling them.
3. **View appointment history**: Track completed and cancelled appointments.

### Technical Implementation

- Doctor schedules are stored with available time slots for each day
- When a patient books an appointment, the corresponding time slot is marked as unavailable
- The scheduling system prevents double-booking by only showing available time slots to patients
- Doctors can view all appointments in a dedicated page with filtering and search capabilities

## Screenshots

### Home Page
![Home Page](./screenshots/home-page.png)
<!-- Add your screenshot images to a screenshots directory -->

### Doctor Search
![Doctor Search](./screenshots/doctor-search.png)

### Patient Dashboard
![Patient Dashboard](./screenshots/patient-dashboard.png)

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend**: Next.js, React, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: Next.js API Routes
- **Database**: [Your database choice]
- **Authentication**: [Your auth solution]
- **Deployment**: Vercel

## How It's Made

This application is built with Next.js using the App Router architecture. The development process involved:

1. User interface design and prototyping
2. Implementation of frontend components with React and Tailwind CSS
3. Backend API development using Next.js API routes
4. Database integration and state management
5. Testing and optimization

## How to Use

1. **Registration/Login**:
   - Create an account or log in to access all features

2. **Finding a Doctor**:
   - Browse through available doctors
   - Filter by specialty, location, or availability
   - View doctor profiles and credentials

3. **Booking Appointments**:
   - Select available time slots
   - Provide reason for visit
   - Receive confirmation

4. **Managing Health Records**:
   - Upload medical documents
   - Share records with healthcare providers
   - Track medical history

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

## Contributing

[Instructions for how others can contribute to your project]

## License

[Your license information]
